README.md, before:

# Infinario Python SDK

The `infinario.Infinario` class provides access to the Infinario Python tracking API,
supporting both synchronous and asynchronous modes.
In order to track events, instantiate the class at least with your project token
(you can get it when you log in to Infinario), for example:

```python
from infinario import Infinario

client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef')
```


## Identifying the customer

When tracking events, you have to specify which customer generated
them. This can be either done right when calling the client's
constructor.

```python
client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', customer='john123')
```

or by calling `identify`.

```python
client.identify('john123')
```

## Tracking events

To track events for the currently selected customer, simply
call the `track` method.

```python
client.track('purchase')
```

You can also specify a dictionary of event properties to store
with the event.

```python
client.track('purchase', {'product': 'bottle', 'amount': 5})
```

## Updating customer properties

You can also update information that is stored with a customer.

```python
client.update({'first_name': 'John', 'last_name': 'Smith'})
```

## Getting HTML from campaign

```python
client.get_html('Banner left')
```

will return

```python
'<img src="/my-awesome-banner-1.png" />'
```

## Transport types

By default the client uses a simple non-buffered synchronous transport. The three available transport types are:
* `NullTransport` - No requests, useful for disabling tracking in the Infinario constructor.
* `SynchronousTransport` - Most operations are blocking for the time of a request to the Infinario API
* `AsynchronousTransport` - Most operations are non-blocking (see the code for more information),
    buffered and using a single worker thread. Infinario client must be closed when no more data is to be tracked.

Example of choosing a transport:

```python
from infinario import Infinario, AsynchronousTransport

client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                   transport=AsynchronousTransport)

# ...

client.close()
```


## Using on the command line

The python client also has a command-line interface that allows to call its essential functions.

```bash
TOKEN='12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef'
CUSTOMER='john123'

# Track event
./infinario.py track "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" purchase --properties product=bottle amount=5

# Update customer properties
./infinario.py update "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" first_name=John last_name=Smith

# Get HTML from campaign
./infinario.py get_html "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" "Banner left"
```

# Infinario Python Authenticated API client

The `infinario.AuthenticatedInfinario` class provides access to the Infinario
synchronous Python authenticated API. In order to export analyses you have to instantiate client
with username and password of user that has ExtAPI access:

```python
from infinario import AuthenticatedInfinario

client = AuthenticatedInfinario('username', 'password')
```

## Exporting analyses

First argument is type of analysis (funnel, report, retention, segmentation),
second argument is JSON. In case that authenticated customer has access to multiple companies use keyword argument
`token=token_of_company_with_given_analysis`

```python
client.export_analysis('funnel', {
    'analysis_id': '2f86608f-24f5-11e3-9950-c48508494cf5'
})
```

will return

```python
{
    "success": true,
    "name": "Conversion funnel",
    "steps": ["First visit", "Registration", "First log in", "Purchase", "Payment"],
    "total": {
        "counts": [48632, 24120, 20398, 1256, 1250],
        "times": [-1, 680, 4502, 45, 540, 300],
        "metric": 1987562
    },
    "drill_down": {
        "type": "none",
        "series": []
    },
    "metric": {
        "step": 4,
        "property": "price"
    }
}
```

Commit message:

better error handling, silent in documentation

README.md, after:

# Infinario Python SDK

The `infinario.Infinario` class provides access to the Infinario Python tracking API,
supporting both synchronous and asynchronous modes.
In order to track events, instantiate the class at least with your project token
(can be found in Project Management in your Infinario account), for example:

```python
from infinario import Infinario

client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef')                  # PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT
# client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', silent=False)  # DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
```

We recommend to set the `silent` parameter to `False` in a development environment, as it will cause the Infinario API
to throw exceptions if something goes wrong. When left to the default value `True`, all errors will be logged
(also see the `logger` parameter).


## Identifying the customer

When tracking events, you have to specify which customer generated
them. This can be either done right when calling the client's
constructor.

```python
client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', customer='john123')
```

or by calling `identify`.

```python
client.identify('john123')
```

## Tracking events

To track events for the currently selected customer, simply
call the `track` method.

```python
client.track('purchase')
```

You can also specify a dictionary of event properties to store
with the event.

```python
client.track('purchase', {'product': 'bottle', 'amount': 5})
```

## Updating customer properties

You can also update information that is stored with a customer.

```python
client.update({'first_name': 'John', 'last_name': 'Smith'})
```

## Getting HTML from campaign

```python
client.get_html('Banner left')
```

will return

```python
'<img src="/my-awesome-banner-1.png" />'
```

## Transport types

By default the client uses a simple non-buffered synchronous transport. The three available transport types are:
* `NullTransport` - No requests, useful for disabling tracking in the Infinario constructor.
* `SynchronousTransport` - Most operations are blocking for the time of a request to the Infinario API
* `AsynchronousTransport` - Most operations are non-blocking (see the code for more information),
    buffered and using a single worker thread. Infinario client must be closed when no more data is to be tracked.

Example of choosing a transport:

```python
from infinario import Infinario, AsynchronousTransport

client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                   transport=AsynchronousTransport)

# ...

client.close()
```


## Using on the command line

The python client also has a command-line interface that allows to call its essential functions.

```bash
TOKEN='12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef'
CUSTOMER='john123'

# Track event
./infinario.py track "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" purchase --properties product=bottle amount=5

# Update customer properties
./infinario.py update "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" first_name=John last_name=Smith

# Get HTML from campaign
./infinario.py get_html "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" "Banner left"
```

# Infinario Python Authenticated API client

The `infinario.AuthenticatedInfinario` class provides access to the Infinario
synchronous Python authenticated API. In order to export analyses you have to instantiate client
with username and password of user that has ExtAPI access:

```python
from infinario import AuthenticatedInfinario

client = AuthenticatedInfinario('username', 'password')
```

## Exporting analyses

First argument is type of analysis (funnel, report, retention, segmentation),
second argument is JSON. In case that authenticated customer has access to multiple companies use keyword argument
`token=token_of_company_with_given_analysis`

```python
client.export_analysis('funnel', {
    'analysis_id': '2f86608f-24f5-11e3-9950-c48508494cf5'
})
```

will return

```python
{
    "success": true,
    "name": "Conversion funnel",
    "steps": ["First visit", "Registration", "First log in", "Purchase", "Payment"],
    "total": {
        "counts": [48632, 24120, 20398, 1256, 1250],
        "times": [-1, 680, 4502, 45, 540, 300],
        "metric": 1987562
    },
    "drill_down": {
        "type": "none",
        "series": []
    },
    "metric": {
        "step": 4,
        "property": "price"
    }
}
```
