README.rst, before:

Infinario Python SDK
====================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/Infinario/python-sdk.svg
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/Infinario/python-sdk
    :alt: Travis CI

The `infinario.Infinario` class provides access to the Infinario Python tracking API,
supporting both synchronous and asynchronous modes.

You can install the SDK using `pip`::

    pip install infinario

In order to track events, instantiate the class at least with your project token
(can be found in Project Management in your Infinario account), for example:

.. code-block:: python

    from infinario import Infinario

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef')                  # PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT
    # client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', silent=False)  # DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT

We recommend to set the `silent` parameter to `False` in a development environment, as it will cause the Infinario API
to throw exceptions if something goes wrong. When left to the default value `True`, all errors will be logged
(also see the `logger` parameter).


To get results of existing analyses stored in your Infinario project, you need to initialize the client
with the Infinario project secret (found in the Overview screen) as the `secret` keyword argument.

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321')


Identifying the customer
------------------------

When tracking events, you have to specify which customer generated
them. This can be either done right when calling the client's
constructor.

.. code-block:: python

    python
    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', customer='john123')

or by calling `identify`.

.. code-block:: python

    client.identify('john123')

Tracking events
---------------

To track events for the currently selected customer, simply
call the `track` method.

.. code-block:: python

    client.track('purchase')

You can also specify a dictionary of event properties to store
with the event.

.. code-block:: python

    client.track('purchase', {'product': 'bottle', 'amount': 5})

Specify the POSIX timestamp of the event using:

.. code-block:: python

    timestamp = time.time()

    # .. time passes ..

    client.track('purchase', timestamp=timestamp)

Updating customer properties
----------------------------

You can also update information that is stored with a customer.

.. code-block:: python

    client.update({'first_name': 'John', 'last_name': 'Smith'})

Getting HTML from campaign
--------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    client.get_html('Banner left')

will return::

    '<img src="/my-awesome-banner-1.png" />'


Analysis export
---------------

To export the entire result of an analysis, use the `export_analysis` client method.
It is necessary to authenticate during initialization of the client (see above).
First argument is type of analysis (funnel, report, retention, segmentation), second argument is JSON object
containing at least the ID of the analysis to export.
Optional parameters include `format` (one of `'native-json'` (default), `'table-json'`, `'csv'`),
    `timezone` (according to the IANA time zone database, default `'UTC'`)
    and `execution_time` (UNIX timestamp specifying the upper bound of events to include, default is now).

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321')

    data = client.export_analysis('funnel', {
        'analysis_id': '2f86608f-24f5-11e3-9950-c48508494cf5',
        'format': 'native-json',
        'timezone': 'UTC',
    })

The data could contain

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "success": true,
        "name": "Conversion funnel",
        "steps": ["First visit", "Registration", "First log in", "Purchase", "Payment"],
        "total": {
            "counts": [48632, 24120, 20398, 1256, 1250],
            "times": [-1, 680, 4502, 45, 540, 300],
            "metric": 1987562
        },
        "drill_down": {
            "type": "none",
            "series": []
        },
        "metric": {
            "step": 4,
            "property": "price"
        }
    }


Segmentation result
-------------------

You can also export the result of a segmentation for a specific customer
(whom you need to specify either at initialization, or using the `identify` method).
It is necessary to authenticate during initialization of the client (see above).

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321',
                       customer='john123')

    segment = client.segment_for('11112222-3333-4444-5555-666677778888',
                                 timezone='UTC', timeout=0.5)

The result is the segmentation name, a string like `'Heavy payer'`. In case the customer doesn't belong to any
defined segment or their segmentation could not be determined within the given timeout, the method will return `None`.
The `timezone` and `timeout` parameters are optional with the defaults as in the example.


Transport types
---------------

By default the client uses a simple non-buffered synchronous transport. The three available transport types are:
* `NullTransport` - No requests, useful for disabling tracking in the Infinario constructor.
* `SynchronousTransport` - (default) Most operations are blocking for the time of a request to the Infinario API
* `AsynchronousTransport` - Most operations are non-blocking (see the code for more information),
    buffered and using a single worker thread. Infinario client must be closed when no more data is to be tracked.
    **We recommend against using the AsynchronousTransport, as it cannot be guaranteed the data will be sent.**
    Data loss can for example happen in various events of system failure or even due to misuse.
    If you would like to track data from your code asynchronously, consider creating your own asynchronous workers
    using a library such as celery and use the SynchronousTransport to send the data from there.

Example of choosing `AsynchronousTransport`:

.. code-block:: python

    from infinario import Infinario, AsynchronousTransport

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       transport=AsynchronousTransport)

    # ...

    client.close()


Using on the command line
-------------------------

The python client also has a command-line interface that allows to call its essential functions:

.. code-block:: sh

    TOKEN='12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef'
    CUSTOMER='john123'

    # Track event
    ./infinario.py track "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" purchase --properties product=bottle amount=5

    # Update customer properties
    ./infinario.py update "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" first_name=John last_name=Smith

    # Get HTML from campaign
    ./infinario.py get_html "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" "Banner left"

Commit message:

Explain tracking to special targets (instances) in README

README.rst, after:

Infinario Python SDK
====================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/Infinario/python-sdk.svg
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/Infinario/python-sdk
    :alt: Travis CI

The `infinario.Infinario` class provides access to the Infinario Python tracking API,
supporting both synchronous and asynchronous modes.

You can install the SDK using `pip`::

    pip install infinario

In order to track events, instantiate the class at least with your project token
(can be found in Project Management in your Infinario account), for example:

.. code-block:: python

    from infinario import Infinario

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef')                  # PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT
    # client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', silent=False)  # DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT

We recommend to set the `silent` parameter to `False` in a development environment, as it will cause the Infinario API
to throw exceptions if something goes wrong. When left to the default value `True`, all errors will be logged
(also see the `logger` parameter).


To get results of existing analyses stored in your Infinario project, you need to initialize the client
with the Infinario project secret (found in the Overview screen) as the `secret` keyword argument.

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321')

In case you are tracking your data to an instance other than `cloud.infinario.com`, you need to specify the
API where data should be sent. Please consult our support to find out the exact URI.

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       target='https://api.infinario.com/')


Identifying the customer
------------------------

When tracking events, you have to specify which customer generated
them. This can be either done right when calling the client's
constructor.

.. code-block:: python

    python
    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef', customer='john123')

or by calling `identify`.

.. code-block:: python

    client.identify('john123')

Tracking events
---------------

To track events for the currently selected customer, simply
call the `track` method.

.. code-block:: python

    client.track('purchase')

You can also specify a dictionary of event properties to store
with the event.

.. code-block:: python

    client.track('purchase', {'product': 'bottle', 'amount': 5})

Specify the POSIX timestamp of the event using:

.. code-block:: python

    timestamp = time.time()

    # .. time passes ..

    client.track('purchase', timestamp=timestamp)

Updating customer properties
----------------------------

You can also update information that is stored with a customer.

.. code-block:: python

    client.update({'first_name': 'John', 'last_name': 'Smith'})

Getting HTML from campaign
--------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    client.get_html('Banner left')

will return::

    '<img src="/my-awesome-banner-1.png" />'


Analysis export
---------------

To export the entire result of an analysis, use the `export_analysis` client method.
It is necessary to authenticate during initialization of the client (see above).
First argument is type of analysis (funnel, report, retention, segmentation), second argument is JSON object
containing at least the ID of the analysis to export.
Optional parameters include `format` (one of `'native-json'` (default), `'table-json'`, `'csv'`),
    `timezone` (according to the IANA time zone database, default `'UTC'`)
    and `execution_time` (UNIX timestamp specifying the upper bound of events to include, default is now).

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321')

    data = client.export_analysis('funnel', {
        'analysis_id': '2f86608f-24f5-11e3-9950-c48508494cf5',
        'format': 'native-json',
        'timezone': 'UTC',
    })

The data could contain

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "success": true,
        "name": "Conversion funnel",
        "steps": ["First visit", "Registration", "First log in", "Purchase", "Payment"],
        "total": {
            "counts": [48632, 24120, 20398, 1256, 1250],
            "times": [-1, 680, 4502, 45, 540, 300],
            "metric": 1987562
        },
        "drill_down": {
            "type": "none",
            "series": []
        },
        "metric": {
            "step": 4,
            "property": "price"
        }
    }


Segmentation result
-------------------

You can also export the result of a segmentation for a specific customer
(whom you need to specify either at initialization, or using the `identify` method).
It is necessary to authenticate during initialization of the client (see above).

.. code-block:: python

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       secret='fedcba09-8765-4321-fedc-ba0987654321',
                       customer='john123')

    segment = client.segment_for('11112222-3333-4444-5555-666677778888',
                                 timezone='UTC', timeout=0.5)

The result is the segmentation name, a string like `'Heavy payer'`. In case the customer doesn't belong to any
defined segment or their segmentation could not be determined within the given timeout, the method will return `None`.
The `timezone` and `timeout` parameters are optional with the defaults as in the example.


Transport types
---------------

By default the client uses a simple non-buffered synchronous transport. The three available transport types are:
* `NullTransport` - No requests, useful for disabling tracking in the Infinario constructor.
* `SynchronousTransport` - (default) Most operations are blocking for the time of a request to the Infinario API
* `AsynchronousTransport` - Most operations are non-blocking (see the code for more information),
    buffered and using a single worker thread. Infinario client must be closed when no more data is to be tracked.
    **We recommend against using the AsynchronousTransport, as it cannot be guaranteed the data will be sent.**
    Data loss can for example happen in various events of system failure or even due to misuse.
    If you would like to track data from your code asynchronously, consider creating your own asynchronous workers
    using a library such as celery and use the SynchronousTransport to send the data from there.

Example of choosing `AsynchronousTransport`:

.. code-block:: python

    from infinario import Infinario, AsynchronousTransport

    client = Infinario('12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef',
                       transport=AsynchronousTransport)

    # ...

    client.close()


Using on the command line
-------------------------

The python client also has a command-line interface that allows to call its essential functions:

.. code-block:: sh

    TOKEN='12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef'
    CUSTOMER='john123'

    # Track event
    ./infinario.py track "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" purchase --properties product=bottle amount=5

    # Update customer properties
    ./infinario.py update "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" first_name=John last_name=Smith

    # Get HTML from campaign
    ./infinario.py get_html "$TOKEN" "$CUSTOMER" "Banner left"
